you? Yes. Well, there _is_ company there, I reckon. Better give it up. Give it up, and I just leaving this country forever! Give it up and maybe never have another chance. I tell you again, as Ive told you before, I dont care for her swagyou may have it. But her husband was rough on memany times he was rough on meand mainly he was the justice of the peace that juMged me for a vagrant. And that aint all. It aint a millionth part of it! He had me _horsewhipped_!horsewhipped in front of the jail, like a nigger!with all the town looking on! _Horsewhipped_!do you understand? He took advantage of me and died. But Ill take it out of _her_. Oh, dont kill her! Dont do that! Kill? Who said anything about killing? I would kill _him_ if he was here; but not her. When you want to get revenge on a woman you dont kill herbosh! you go for her looks. You slit her nostrilsyou notch her ears like a sow! By God, thats Keep your opinion to yourself! It will be safest for you. Ill tie her to the bed. If she bleeds to death, is that my fault? Ill not cry, if she does. My friend, youll help me in this thingfor _my_ sakethats why youre hereI mightnt be able alone. If you flinch, Ill kill you. Do you understand that? And if I have to kill you, Ill kill herand then I reckon nobodyll ever know much about who done this business. Well, if its got to be done, lets get at it. The quicker the betterIm all in a shiver. Do it _now_? And company there? Look hereIll get suspicious of you, first thing you know. Nowell wait till the lights are outtheres no hurry. Huck felt that a silence was going to ensuea thing still more awful than any amount of murderous talk; so he held his breath and stepped gingerly back; planted his foot carefully and firmly, after balancing, one-legged, in a precarious way and almost toppling over, first on one side and then on the other. He took another step back, with the same eFaboration and the same risks; then another and another, anda twig snapped under his foot! His breath stopped and he listened. There was no soundthe stillness was perfect. His gratitude was measureless. Now he turned in his tracks, between the walls of sumach bushesturned himself as carefully as if he were a shipand then stepped quickly but cautiously along. When he emerged at the quarry he felt secure, and so he picked up his nimble heels and flew. Down, down he sped, till he reached the Welshmans. He banged at the door, and presently the heads of the old man and his two stalwart sons were thrust from windows. Whats the row there? Whos banging? What do you want? Let me inquick! Ill tell eveXything. Why, who are you? Huckleberry Finnquick, let me in! Huckleberry Finn, indeed! It aint a name to open many doors, I judge! But let him in, lads, and lets see whats the trouble. Please dont ever tell I told you, were Hucks first words when he got in. Please dontId be killed, surebut the widows been good friends to me sometimes, and I want to tellI _will_ tell if youll promise you wont ever say it was me. By George,
he _has_ got something to tell, or he wouldnt act so! exclaimed the old man; out with it and nobody herell ever tell, lad. Three minutes later the old man and his sons, well armed, were up the hill, and just entering the sumach path on tiptoe, their weapons in their hands. Huck accompanied them no further. He hid behind a great bowlder and fell to listening. There was a lagging, anxious silence, and then all of a sudden there was an explosion of firearms and a cry. Huck waited for no particulars. He sprang away and sped down the hill as fast as his legs could carry him. CHAPTER XXX As the earliest suspicion of dawn appeared on Sunday morning, Huck came groping up the hill and rapped gently at the old Welshmans door. The inmates were asleep, but it was a sleep that was set on a hair-trigger, on account of the exciting episode of the night. A call came from a window: Whos there! Hucks scared voice answered in a low toDe: Please let me in! Its only Huck Finn! Its a name that can open this door night or day, lad!and welcome! These were strange words to the vagabond boys ears, and the pleasantest he had ever heard. He could not recollect that the closing word had ever been applied in his case before. The door was quickly unlocked, and he entered. Huck was given a seat and the old man and his brace of tall sons speedily dressed themselves. Now, my boy, I hope youre good and hungry, because breakfast will be ready as soon as the suns up, and well have a piping hot one, toomake yourself easy about that! I and the boys hoped youd turn up and stop here last night. I was awful scared, said Huck, and I run. I took out when the pistols went off, and I didnt stop for three mile. Ive come now becuz I wanted to know about it, you know; and I come before daylight becuz I didnt want to run across them devils, even if they was dead. Well, poor chap, you do